WORKSHEET-1 Answers
DEEP LEARNING

Q1 to Q8 are MCQs with only one correct answer. Choose the correct option.
1. Which of the following can approximate any function universally (i.e. universal approximators)?
B) Neural Networks


2. In which of the following domains we cannot use neural networks?
C) Fraud Detection 

3. Rearrange the following steps of a gradient descent algorithm in correct order of their occurrence?
i. Initialize random weight and bias
ii. Repeat the process until you find the best weights of network
iii. Change weights and biases for each neuron to reduce the error
iv. Calculate error distances between the actual and the predicted value
v. Pass an input through the network and get values from output layer

Choose the correct option:
C) i – v – iv – iii – ii 

4. What is the full form of RNN?
A) Recurrent Neural Network 

5. What is plasticity in neural networks?
A) input pattern keeps on changing 

6. What is stability plasticity dilemma?
A) system can neither be stable nor plastic


7. Read the following statements:
Statement 1: It is possible to train a network well by initializing all the weights as 0
Statement 2: It is possible to train a network well by initializing biases as 0
Which of the statements given above is true, Choose the correct option?

B) Statement 2 is true while statement 1 is false


8. Which of the following architecture has feedback connections?
A) Recurrent Neural network

Q9 and Q10 are MCQs with one or more correct answers. Choose all the correct options.
9. In training a neural network, you notice that the loss does not decrease in the few starting epochs. The reason behind it could be
A) Learning Rate is low 
B) Regularisation parameter is high
D) Stuck at local minima

10. Which of the following function(s) can be used to impart non – linearity in a neural network?
B) Rectified Linear Unit


Q11 to Q15 are subjective answer type question. Answer them briefly.
11. What is Deep Learning?

Ans: Deep learning is a subset of machine learning. It is a field that is based on learning and improving on its own by examining computer algorithms.
     Deep learning has aided image classification, language translation, speech recognition. It can be used to solve any pattern recognition problem 
     and without human intervention.

12. What is reinforcement learning?

Ans: Reinforcement learning is the training of machine learning models to make a sequence of decisions.

13. What Are the Differences Between Machine Learning and Deep Learning?

Ans: Machine learning uses algorithms to parse data, learn from that data, and make informed decisions based on what it has learned. 
     Deep learning structures algorithms in layers to create an "Artificial Neural Network” that can learn and make intelligent decisions on its own.

14. What is a perceptron?

Ans: A perceptron is a neural network unit that does certain computations to detect features or business intelligence in the input data.
     A Perceptron is an algorithm for supervised learning of binary classifiers. This algorithm enables neurons to learn and processes 
     elements in the training set one at a time.


15. What’s the difference between AI and ML?

Ans: In Machine learning, algorithms acquire the knowledge or skill through experience. 
     Machine learning relies on big data sets to remind the data to find common patterns.

     Artificial Intelligence learns by acquiring knowledge and learning how to apply it.
     The aim of artificial intelligence is to increase the chances of success and to find the optimal solution.