WORKSHEET-1 Answers- SQL

Q1 and Q2 have one or more correct answer. Choose all the correct option to answer your question.
1. Which of the following is/are DDL commands in SQL?
A) Create  D) ALTER

2. Which of the following is/are DML commands in SQL?
A) Update B) Delete

Q3 to Q10 have only one correct answer. Choose the correct option to answer your question.
3. Full form of SQL is:
B) Structured Query Language

4. Full form of DDL is:
B) Data Definition Language

5. DML is:
A) Data Manipulation Language 

6. Which of the following statements can be used to create a table with column B int type and C float type?
C) Create Table A (B int,C float) 

7. Which of the following statements can be used to add a column D (float type) to the table A created above?
B) Alter Table A ADD COLUMN D float


8. Which of the following statements can be used to drop the column added in the above question?
B) Alter Table A Drop Column D


9. Which of the following statements can be used to change the data type (from float to int ) of the column D of table A created in above questions?
B) Alter Table A Alter Column D int


10. Suppose we want to make Column B of Table A as primary key of the table. By which of the following statements we can do it?
C) Alter Table A Add Primary key B 

Q11 to Q15 are subjective answer type questions, Answer them briefly.
11. What is data-warehouse?

Ans: A data warehouse is a type of data management system that is designed to enable and support business intelligence (BI) activities, 
     especially analytics. Data warehouses are solely intended to perform queries and analysis and often contain large amounts of historical data.
     The data within a data warehouse is usually derived from a wide range of sources such as application log files and transaction applications.

12. What is the difference between OLTP VS OLAP?

Ans: OLTP (On-Line Transaction Processing) is featured by a large number of short on-line transactions (INSERT, UPDATE, and DELETE). 
     The primary significance of OLTP operations is put on very rapid query processing, maintaining record integrity in multi-access environments, 
     and effectiveness consistent by the number of transactions per second. In the OLTP database, there is an accurate and current record, and schema 
     used to save transactional database is the entity model (usually 3NF).

     OLAP (On-line Analytical Processing) is represented by a relatively low volume of transactions. Queries are very difficult and involve aggregations. 
     For OLAP operations, response time is an effectiveness measure. OLAP applications are generally used by Data Mining techniques. 
     In OLAP database there is aggregated, historical information, stored in multi-dimensional schemas (generally star schema).

13. What are the various characteristics of data-warehouse?

Ans: -Data Warehouse is subject oriented. It provides information on a topic rather than ongoing operation of organizations.
      it emphasized modeling and analyzing decision making data.
     -Data Warehouse means establishing a standard unit of measurment from the different databases for all. it must also keep naming conversation,
      format and coding consistent. 
     -Data warehouse is quite expensive. the data collected in a data warehouse is acknowlwdge over a given period and provides historical information.
     -Data warehouse is a non volatile means that provide data will not be erased when new data are entered into it. data is read only, only updated regularly.  

14. What is Star-Schema??

Ans: Star schema: The most common modeling paradigm is the star schema, 
     in which the data warehouse contains (1) a large central table (fact table ) containing the bulk of the 
     data, with no redundancy, and (2) a set of smaller attendant tables (dimension tables ), one for each 
     dimension. The schema graph resembles a starburst, with the dimension tables displayed 
     in a radial pattern around the central fact table.

15. What do you mean by SETL?

Ans: It is a type of data integration that refers to the three steps (extract, transform, load) used to 
     blend data from multiple sources. It's often used to build a data warehouse. During this process, data is 
     taken (extracted) from a source system, converted (transformed) into a format that can be analyzed, and stored 
     (loaded) into a data warehouse or other system. Extract, load, transform (ELT) is an alternate but related approach 
     designed to push processing down to the database for improved performance.
   